<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [consider][1]
    -   [Examples][2]
-   [base][3]
    -   [toFriendly][4]
-   [article][5]
    -   [Examples][6]
    -   [file][7]
        -   [Parameters][8]
        -   [Examples][9]
    -   [statementsFile][10]
        -   [Parameters][11]
        -   [Examples][12]
    -   [statement][13]
        -   [Parameters][14]
        -   [Examples][15]
    -   [userStory][16]
        -   [Parameters][17]
        -   [Examples][18]
    -   [userStoryFile][19]
        -   [Parameters][20]
        -   [Examples][21]
    -   [epic][22]
        -   [Parameters][23]
        -   [Examples][24]
    -   [functionality][25]
        -   [Parameters][26]
        -   [Examples][27]
-   [conjunction][28]
-   [determiner][29]
-   [eachDeterminer][30]
    -   [Examples][31]
-   [firstDeterminer][32]
    -   [Examples][33]
-   [lastDeterminer][34]
    -   [Examples][35]
-   [eachTaggedDeterminer][36]
    -   [Examples][37]
-   [iterator][38]
    -   [Parameters][39]
    -   [Examples][40]
    -   [getNext][41]
        -   [Parameters][42]
    -   [getPrev][43]
        -   [Parameters][44]
    -   [isFirst][45]
    -   [isLast][46]
    -   [hasNext][47]
    -   [hasPrev][48]
    -   [followedBy][49]
        -   [Parameters][50]
    -   [nextIs][51]
        -   [Parameters][52]
    -   [nextIsnt][53]
        -   [Parameters][54]
    -   [is][55]
        -   [Parameters][56]
    -   [isnt][57]
        -   [Parameters][58]
    -   [peek][59]
    -   [val][60]
    -   [goTo][61]
        -   [Parameters][62]
    -   [until][63]
        -   [Parameters][64]
    -   [toEndString][65]
        -   [Parameters][66]
-   [object][67]
    -   [Examples][68]
    -   [tag][69]
        -   [Parameters][70]
    -   [unTag][71]
        -   [Parameters][72]
    -   [hasTags][73]
    -   [hasTag][74]
        -   [Parameters][75]
    -   [find][76]
        -   [Parameters][77]
    -   [clear][78]
    -   [isEmpty][79]
    -   [count][80]
        -   [Parameters][81]
    -   [toArray][82]
    -   [append][83]
    -   [determinerDefault][84]
        -   [Parameters][85]
        -   [Examples][86]
    -   [setDeterminer][87]
-   [file][88]
    -   [Parameters][89]
    -   [Examples][90]
    -   [read][91]
        -   [Parameters][92]
        -   [Examples][93]
    -   [clearFileInDisk][94]
    -   [isEmpty][95]
    -   [line][96]
        -   [Parameters][97]
        -   [Examples][98]
    -   [toArray][99]
    -   [append][100]
        -   [Parameters][101]
-   [statementsFile][102]
    -   [Parameters][103]
    -   [Examples][104]
    -   [append][105]
        -   [Parameters][106]
    -   [read][107]
        -   [Parameters][108]
        -   [Examples][109]
    -   [line][110]
        -   [Parameters][111]
        -   [Examples][112]
    -   [toArray][113]
    -   [getUserStorySummary][114]
        -   [Parameters][115]
-   [statement][116]
    -   [Parameters][117]
    -   [Examples][118]
    -   [find][119]
        -   [Parameters][120]
        -   [Examples][121]
    -   [count][122]
        -   [Parameters][123]
        -   [Examples][124]
    -   [setDeterminer][125]
        -   [Examples][126]
    -   [word][127]
        -   [Parameters][128]
        -   [Examples][129]
    -   [toArray][130]
    -   [hasUser][131]
        -   [Parameters][132]
        -   [Examples][133]
    -   [hasAction][134]
        -   [Parameters][135]
        -   [Examples][136]
    -   [hasPurpose][137]
        -   [Parameters][138]
        -   [Examples][139]
    -   [isUserStoryFormat][140]
    -   [convertToUserStory][141]
-   [userStory][142]
    -   [Parameters][143]
    -   [Examples][144]
    -   [user][145]
        -   [Parameters][146]
    -   [groupWith][147]
        -   [Parameters][148]
    -   [userExists][149]
        -   [Parameters][150]
    -   [actionExists][151]
        -   [Parameters][152]
    -   [purposeExists][153]
        -   [Parameters][154]
-   [correlation][155]
    -   [Parameters][156]
-   [epic][157]
    -   [Parameters][158]
    -   [Examples][159]
    -   [append][160]
        -   [Parameters][161]
    -   [setDeterminer][162]
    -   [userStory][163]
        -   [Parameters][164]
        -   [Examples][165]
    -   [renameAs][166]
        -   [Parameters][167]
    -   [toArray][168]
-   [userStoryFile][169]
    -   [Parameters][170]
    -   [Examples][171]
    -   [getStatementsFile][172]
        -   [Examples][173]
    -   [getInvalidStatements][174]
        -   [Examples][175]
    -   [setDeterminer][176]
    -   [userStory][177]
        -   [Parameters][178]
        -   [Examples][179]
    -   [invalidUserStory][180]
        -   [Parameters][181]
        -   [Examples][182]
-   [functionality][183]
    -   [Parameters][184]
-   [tag][185]
    -   [Parameters][186]
-   [verb][187]
    -   [Parameters][188]
    -   [validate][189]
    -   [isModal][190]
        -   [Parameters][191]
    -   [isAuxiliary][192]
        -   [Parameters][193]
    -   [isOther][194]
        -   [Parameters][195]
    -   [isValid][196]
        -   [Parameters][197]
-   [modalVerb][198]
    -   [Parameters][199]
-   [auxiliaryVerb][200]
    -   [Parameters][201]
-   [otherVerb][202]
    -   [Parameters][203]
    -   [validate][204]

## consider

Main class "consider", allows accessing and asserting objects, files, user stories

### Examples

```javascript
//Example using 'should' library

let chai = require('chai');
let should = chai.should();
let consider = require('considering');  

consider.a.statement("As a user, I want to be able to create user stories so that I record my needs too.")
.find("to", (response)=>{
JSON.stringify(response).should.equal(JSON.stringify([18, 29, 45, 78]));
done();
})
.count("to", (response)=>{
response.should.equal(4);
done();
})
.where.each.word((content)=>{
content.length.should.equal(19);
done();
});
```

Returns **[object][205]** the main object.

## base

Base class where all other classes inherit from (except class "consider")

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself

### toFriendly

Translates the current class name into a friendly name which can be printed (separates Camel casing into separate words)

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself

## article

**Extends base**

Creates an article which can be apended in from of the consider object syntax (example, "a"),
so that the consider syntax can be written "consider.a". 
'a' and 'the' are articles gramatically). It allows accessing particular objects in front of the article,
e.g. see {file} class.

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.<determiner>
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself

### file

Returns a file object which the article points to

#### Parameters

-   `src` **[number][207]** is the file path

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.file(file_path)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the {file} object

### statementsFile

Returns a statementsFile object which the article points to

#### Parameters

-   `src` **[number][207]** is the file path

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.file(file_path)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the {file} object

### statement

Returns a statement object which the article points to

#### Parameters

-   `text` **[text][208]** is the statement's content in textual format, e.g. any sentence.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement(some_sentence)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the {statement} object

### userStory

Returns a userStory object which the article points to

#### Parameters

-   `text` **[text][208]** is the statement's content in user story valid format, 
    see {isUserStoryFormat} method of {statement} for additional details.
-   `throwError`  

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStory(some_sentence_in_form_of_a_user_story)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the {userStory} object

### userStoryFile

Returns an userStory File which the article points to

#### Parameters

-   `path` **[String][209]** is the path of the file containing the user stories,
-   `callback` **[Function][210]** is the callback function

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStoryFile(path)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the {userStoryFile} object

### epic

Returns an epic object which the article points to

#### Parameters

-   `text` **[text][208]** is the statement's content - does not need to be a user story format.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.epic(some_sentence)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the {epic} object

### functionality

Returns a functionality object which the article points to

#### Parameters

-   `f`  
-   `TODO` **f** : WIP

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.functionlity(some_functionality)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the {functionality} object (WIP)

## conjunction

**Extends base**

Gramatically, the action or an instance of two or more events or things occurring 
at the same point in time or space, in a form of a word used to connect clauses or 
sentences or to coordinate words in the same clause.
Examples of conjunctions are where, but, if - in this case the valid conjunction for
the consider syntax is 'where', e.g. consider.a.statement.where...

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself which can be followed by any {determiner} object.

## determiner

**Extends base**

Determiner is injected with specific functions from the object class.
However the injected function only works with what set is provided to them via the 'values' function
The caller must implement an iterator function which tells the {determiner} how values within the {object} 
are splited. 
This class cannot be directly used, instead, inherit and implement specialized determiners.

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself which is followed by the injected functions.

## eachDeterminer

**Extends determiner**

Specific implementation of the 'each' determiner keyword

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement.where.each.<injected_functions>
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself which is followed by the injected functions.

## firstDeterminer

**Extends determiner**

Specific implementation of the 'first' determiner keyword

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement.where.first.<injected_functions>
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself which is followed by the injected functions.

## lastDeterminer

**Extends determiner**

Specific implementation of the 'last' determiner keyword

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement.where.last.<injected_functions>
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself which is followed by the injected functions.

## eachTaggedDeterminer

**Extends determiner**

Specific implementation of the 'eachTagged' determiner keyword, which when used, expects a "matched" tag e.g. 
as an argument to "line", e.g. see "line" in statementFile class
Expects assessors (e.g. line), to have the tag select condition function to evaluate

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement.where.eachTagged.line(..., matchTag)>
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself which is followed by the injected functions.

## iterator

**Extends base**

Iterator class which is used as part of the consider sintax.
The iterator starts at -1 position. The object has then several methods
which can be used to iterate through the values of the object.

### Parameters

-   `arrayVal` **[Array][211]** is the array of values to add to the {iterator}. (optional, default `[]`)

### Examples

```javascript
let statement = consider.a.statement("As a user, I want to be able to create user stories so that I record my needs.");
let iterator = statement.where.first.word((content)=>{ 
content.should.equal("As");
}).followedBy((content) => {
content.val().should.equal("a");
}).getNext();
iterator.val().should.equal("user");
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the {iterator} object

### getNext

Gets the next value of the iterator. When the iterator object is created it starts its position at -1.
This means the user must invoque this method to access the first item in the iterator.

#### Parameters

-   `i` **int** is the number of times to getNext, if not provided assumes 1

Returns **[Object][206]** a reference to the {iterator}, so that the user can "chain" the result directly with other
iterations.

### getPrev

Gets the previous value of the iterator.

#### Parameters

-   `i` **int** is the number of times to getPrev, if not provided assumes 1

Returns **[Object][206]** a reference to the {iterator}, so that the user can "chain" the result directly with other
iterations.

### isFirst

Checks if the iterator is pointing to the first item.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the index = 0. Notice this is not the case when the iterator is first instantiated.

### isLast

Checks if the iterator is pointing to the last item.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the index = length-1

### hasNext

Checks if the iterator has a values after the current one.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** if has not reached the end

### hasPrev

Checks if the iterator has a values before the current one.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** if has not pointing to the first value

### followedBy

Allows to specify a callback which receives the iterator's next value.
It causes the iterator to move to the next value

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** function whjch takes the iterator as input pointing to the next value.

Returns **[Object][206]** a reference to the {iterator}, so that the user can "chain" the result directly with other
iterations.

### nextIs

Checks if next value of the iterator equals the input

#### Parameters

-   `value` **[Object][206]** to compare with.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the iterator's next value equals the supplied input.

### nextIsnt

Checks if next value of the iterator does not equals the input

#### Parameters

-   `value` **[Object][206]** to compare with.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the iterator's next value does not equal the supplied input.

### is

Checks if the current value of the iterator equals the supplied input.

#### Parameters

-   `value` **[Object][206]** to compare with.

Returns **[Object][206]** a reference to the {iterator} in case the comparison is true, Otherwise throws an {Error}.

### isnt

Checks if the current value of the iterator does not equal the supplied input.

#### Parameters

-   `value` **[Object][206]** to compare with.

Returns **[Object][206]** a reference to the {iterator} in case the comparison is true, Otherwise throws an {Error}.

### peek

Returns (peeks) the next value of the {iterator}, maintaining its state,
that is, not moving the iterator pointer to the next value

Returns **[Boolean][212]** the next value of the {iterator}.

### val

Returns the current value of the iterator, maintaining its state.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** the current value of the {iterator}.

### goTo

Iterates to the next values of the iterator until it finds the element passed as input.
NOTE: This is an expensive method, so use it only for small iterators.

#### Parameters

-   `el` **[Object][206]** is the element to find.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the value is found. It leaves the {iterator} in the state pointing to that value. Otherwise returns false and leaves the {iterator} in it's last position.

### until

Produces a statement between the current iterator and the value of another one
NOTE: This is an expensive method, so use it only for small iterators.

#### Parameters

-   `iter` **[Object][206]** is the iterator to go to.

Returns **[Object][206]** the statement.

### toEndString

Gets the remainder of the string from the iterator's pointer till the end. It changes the pointer state

#### Parameters

-   `until` **[String][209]** if provided will provide the respective string until that item

Returns **[String][209]** the remaining string.

## object

**Extends base**

Object is something which follows the article (e.g. "a", or "the"). This is a generic class which should be
inherited by specialized classes (e.g. see {file} or {statement} classes).
This base class defines methos which are common accross all objects.

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.<object>
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

### tag

Attaches a tag value to the current object. An object may have many tags.

#### Parameters

-   `tag` **[Object][206]** is the tag instance to add to the objet, or a string value

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself, so that the expression can be chained.

### unTag

Removes an existing tagged defined by an input.

#### Parameters

-   `tag` **[string][209]** is the tag instance to remove from the object. If the tag does not exist it does not fail.

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself, so that the expression can be chained.

### hasTags

Checks if the current object has any tag.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if there are any tags attached to the current object.

### hasTag

Checks if the current object has the tag supplied by the input paramenter.

#### Parameters

-   `value` **[string][209]** is the value of the tag to find.

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if there is any tag with the same value as the input

### find

Must be implemented by specialized sub-classes. Depending on the implementation should find a fragment and follow-up with a callback function

#### Parameters

-   `fragment` **[Object][206]** to find.
-   `callback` **[Function][210]** to call.

### clear

Clears the contents of the object

### isEmpty

Returns if an object is empty

### count

Must be implemented by specialized sub-classes. Depending on the implementation should count the number of fragments and follow-up with a callback function

#### Parameters

-   `fragment` **[Object][206]** to find.
-   `callback` **[Function][210]** to call.

### toArray

Must be implemented by specialized sub-classes and return the object's contents as an array.
Should always return an array of its values to be iterated

### append

appends content to the current object

### determinerDefault

Calculates an array with all the items in the object and sends it to a callback function. Only usable by sub-classes
which implement the iterator() and the toArray() methods.

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** function, the first argument is an array with all the words contained in the statement.
-   `chainCaller` **[Boolean][212]** if true, will chain the caller object again instead of the iterator object. (optional, default `false`)

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.<object>(?)
.where.each.<determiner>((content)=>{
});
```

### setDeterminer

Must be implemented by specialized sub-classes

Returns **[Array][211]** the overriden method should return an array of functions, which can be accessed by the object

## file

**Extends object**

Specialized file object implementation it expresses a real existing file on disk, specified by a file path in the constructor.

### Parameters

-   `file_name`  

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.file(file_name)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

### read

Reads a file's contents and sends these as parameters to a callback function.
A file can be read in 2 ways:
(1) Either by calling the method below, or
(2) (preferred method for big files) by using the determiner file.where.each.line below

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** to call. The first argument of the callback is a string with the full contents of the file.

#### Examples

```javascript
let file1 = consider.a.file("./test/test_file1.txt");
file1.read((contents)=>{
console.log(contents);
contents.should.equal("This is just a test content.");
done();
});
```

### clearFileInDisk

truncates the file on disk, but not any in-memory data already loaded

### isEmpty

truncates the file

### line

Reads a file's contents via a line assessor. Preferred method for large files.

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** to call. The first argument of the callback is an array of lines (string) of the file's contents.

#### Examples

```javascript
let file1 = consider.a.file("./test/test_file2.txt")
file1.where.each.line((content)=>{
content.length.should.equal(2);
done();
});
```

Returns **[Object][206]** an {iterator} of the {object} (WIP, not ready to be used).

### toArray

Returns the file's contents as an Array of {statement} objects

Returns **[Object][206]** an array of {statement} objects.

### append

Appends statements' contents to a file.

#### Parameters

-   `s` **[Object][206]** , the statement object to add
-   `callback`  
-   `option` **[Function][210]** callback to call, in case provided will append in async way, and re-send the object as first argument of the callback

Returns **[Object][206]** the curent object

## statementsFile

**Extends file**

Specialized statementsFile which allows storing more contextual information on files (e.g. Tags, etc...)

### Parameters

-   `file_name`  

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statementsFile(file_name)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

### append

Appends statements to a file (serialized object)

#### Parameters

-   `s` **[Object][206]** , the statement object to add
-   `callback`  
-   `mandatory` **[Function][210]** callback to call, in this case mandatory because the file needs to be read and that is an async operation

Returns **[Object][206]** the curent object

### read

Override of the read method from the file class

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** to call. The first argument of the callback is a string with the full contents of the file.

#### Examples

```javascript
let file1 = consider.a.statementsFile("./test/test_file1.txt");
file1.read((contents)=>{
console.log(contents);
contents.should.equal("This is just a test content.");
done();
});
```

### line

override of the default line assessor for statementFiles, it returns the line or lines depending on the
determiner used.

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** is a function to handled the result.
-   `match` **[String][209]** is criteria for selecting the statements based on the mathing tag

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statementsFile('./some/file.path').where.eachTagged.line((content)=>{
console.log(`This is a content tagged as "User Story": ${content.contents}`);
}, "User Story" );
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the current object iterator

### toArray

Returns the statementFile's contents as an Array of {statement} objects => in this case just returns this.contents

Returns **[Object][206]** an array of {statement} objects.

### getUserStorySummary

Returns basic summary information about current statements, with regards to user story stats.

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** to send the results to. The first argument of the callback is a 
    JSON output json explaining the facts.
-   `read`   (optional, default `true`)
-   `by` **Bool** default re-reads the file's contents (true), if false skips reading

## statement

**Extends object**

Specialized statement object implementation (inherits {object}). It expresses any text statement (e.g. a sentence).

### Parameters

-   `text`  

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement(text)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

### find

Finds all instances of the text on the same content
This function is blocking, which is not super-ideal for large statements...

#### Parameters

-   `fragment` **[String][209]** is the String to search for.
-   `callback` **[Function][210]** to send the results to. The first argument of the callback is an array of matching indexes.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement("As a user, I want to be able to create user stories so that I record my needs too.")
.find("to", (response)=>{
JSON.stringify(response).should.equal(JSON.stringify([18, 29, 45, 78]));
done();
});
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the current object, to allow chaining

### count

Counts all instances of the text on the same content
This function is blocking, which is not super-ideal for large statements...

#### Parameters

-   `fragment` **[String][209]** is the String to search for.
-   `callback` **[Function][210]** to send the count results to. The first argument of the Integer number of occurencies.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement("As a user, I want to be able to create user stories so that I record my needs.")
.count("to", (response)=>{
response.should.equal(3);
done();
});
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the current object, to allow chaining

### setDeterminer

Returns the function names which can be attached to this object. In this case "word", which allows to write the code as in the example.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement("As a user,I want to be able to create user stories, so that I record my needs , alright ? ")
.where.each.word((content)=>{
content.length.should.equal(19);
done();
});
```

### word

Calculates an array with all the words in a statement and sends it to a callback function.

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** function, the first argument is an array with all the words contained in the statement.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.statement("As a user,I want to be able to create user stories, so that I record my needs , alright ? ")
.where.each.word((content)=>{
content.length.should.equal(19);
done();
});
```

### toArray

Converts the statement object contents to an array of words

Returns **[Array][211]** array of words (String)

### hasUser

Checks if the current statement has a user, from a valid User Story perspective

#### Parameters

-   `throwsError` **[Boolean][212]** defaults to true, will throw an error if statement has no user, false otherwise (optional, default `true`)

#### Examples

```javascript
let statement = consider.a.statement("As a <<user>>, I want to be able to create user stories so that I record my needs.")
statement.hasUser().should.equal(true);
```

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the user exists

### hasAction

Checks if the current statement has an action, from a valid User Story perspective

#### Parameters

-   `throwsError` **[Boolean][212]** defaults to true, will throw an error if statement has no action, false otherwise (optional, default `true`)

#### Examples

```javascript
let statement = consider.a.statement("As a user, I want to <<be able to create>> user stories so that I record my needs.")
statement.hasAction().should.equal(true);
```

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the action exists

### hasPurpose

Checks if the current statement has a purpose, from a valid User Story perspective

#### Parameters

-   `throwsError` **[Boolean][212]** defaults to true, will throw an error if statement has no purpose, false otherwise (optional, default `true`)

#### Examples

```javascript
let statement = consider.a.statement("As a user, I want to be able to create user stories so that <<I record my needs>>.")
statement.hasPurpose().should.equal(true);
```

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the purpose exists

### isUserStoryFormat

Checks if the current statement has a valid user story format, that is a user AND an action AND a purpose

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the purpose exists

### convertToUserStory

Converts the current {statement} object into a {userStory} object

Returns **[object][205]** the userStory object

## userStory

**Extends statement**

Specialized userStory object implementation (inherits {statement}). It expresses any text statement (e.g. a sentence) in a valid user story format.

### Parameters

-   `contents` **[String][209]** is the text of the user story
-   `throwError` **bool** if true means the contructor will throw an exception if not in the correct format. By default does not thow Error. (optional, default `false`)

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStory(text)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

### user

if successful

#### Parameters

-   `callback`  
-   `the` **[function][210]** callback function, which as first argument returns if user story has a user and second argument the user text

Returns **[object][205]** the userStory object

### groupWith

groups the current user story with another one and into an epic, if not exists, creates the epic

#### Parameters

-   `us` **[object][205]** , the user story to group with
-   `epicName`  

Returns **[object][205]** the epic object

### userExists

Internal Static Function which checks if a user exists from a User Story perspective, given statement as parameter. Used by the {statement} object.

#### Parameters

-   `statement` **[Object][206]** is the statement to check

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the statement has a user, throws error if not

### actionExists

Internal Static Function which checks if an action exists from a User Story perspective, given statement as parameter. Used by the {statement} object.

#### Parameters

-   `statement` **[Object][206]** is the statement to check

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the statement has an action.

### purposeExists

Internal Static Function which checks if a purpose exists from a User Story perspective, given statement as parameter. Used by the {statement} object.

#### Parameters

-   `statement` **[Object][206]** is the statement to check

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if the statement has a purpose.

## correlation

**Extends base**

Class which encapsulates a correlation object

### Parameters

-   `us`  
-   `should` **UserStory** receive as first argument a user story object

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

## epic

**Extends statement**

Specialized epic object implementation (inherits {statement}). It expresses any text statement (e.g. a sentence) in a valid user story format.

### Parameters

-   `contents` **[String][209]** is the text of the user story
-   `throwError` **bool** if true means the contructor will throw an exception if not in the correct format. By default does not thow Error.

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStory(text)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

### append

appends a user story to the epic

#### Parameters

-   `obj`  

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

### setDeterminer

Returns the function names which can be attached to this object. In this case "userStory", which allows to write the code as in the example.

Returns **[Array][211]** An array with the user story object.

### userStory

Calculates an array with all the words in a statement and sends it to a callback function.

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** function, the first argument is an array with all the words contained in the statement.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.epic(epic1)
.where.each.userStory((content)=>{
content.length.should.equal(2); //Epic has 2 user stories
done();
});
```

### renameAs

Returns the function names which can be attached to this object. In this case "userStory", which allows to write the code as in the example.

#### Parameters

-   `text` **[String][209]** which the epic should be changed to

Returns **[Object][206]** the epic object

### toArray

Overriden to simply returns the items

## userStoryFile

**Extends epic**

Specialized userStoryFile which allows storing more contextual information on user Stories (e.g. user, action, purpose)

### Parameters

-   `file_name` **[string][209]** the user stories file name
-   `callback` **[Function][210]** This constructor has a callback as internally reads automatically the file, it can run without a constructor, but it is best to use a callback

### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStoryFile(file_name)
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the object itself.

### getStatementsFile

Gets the underlying statementsFile object

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStoryFile(file_name).getStatementsFile()
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the underlying statementsFile object

### getInvalidStatements

Gets the invalid User Stories

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStoryFile(file_name).getInvalidStatements()
```

Returns **[Object][206]** the underlying Array of statements object (invalid user stories)

### setDeterminer

Returns the function names which can be attached to this object. In this case "userStory", which allows to write the code as in the example.

Returns **[Array][211]** An array with the user story object.

### userStory

Calculates an array with all the valid user stories and sends it to a callback function.

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** function, the first argument is an array with all the words contained in the statement.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStoryFile(<path>, (file) => {
file.where.each.userStory((content)=>{
content.length.should.equal(2); //Epic has 2 user stories
done();
});
});
```

### invalidUserStory

Returns an array with all the invalid valid user stories and sends it to a callback function.

#### Parameters

-   `callback` **[Function][210]** function, the first argument is an array with all the words contained in the statement.

#### Examples

```javascript
consider.a.userStoryFile(<path>, (file) => {
file.where.each.invalidUserStory((content)=>{
content.length.should.equal(2); //Epic has 2 user stories
done();
});
});
```

## functionality

**Extends object**

WIP (TODO: Document)

### Parameters

-   `f`  

## tag

**Extends object**

Tag class. Used to tag objects such as statements and User Stories

### Parameters

-   `value` **[String][209]** is the tag text to match

Returns **[Boolean][212]** true if matched

## verb

**Extends base**

WIP (TODO: Document)

### Parameters

-   `value`  

### validate

WIP (TODO: Document)

### isModal

#### Parameters

-   `val`  

### isAuxiliary

#### Parameters

-   `val`  

### isOther

#### Parameters

-   `val`  

### isValid

#### Parameters

-   `val`  

## modalVerb

**Extends verb**

Gramatically an auxiliary verb that expresses necessity or possibility. 
English modal verbs include must, shall, will, should, would, 
can, could, may, and might.
WIP (TODO: Document)

### Parameters

-   `value`  

## auxiliaryVerb

**Extends verb**

WIP (TODO: Document)

### Parameters

-   `value`  

## otherVerb

**Extends verb**

WIP (TODO: Document)

### Parameters

-   `value`  

### validate

WIP (TODO: Document)

[1]: #consider

[2]: #examples

[3]: #base

[4]: #tofriendly

[5]: #article

[6]: #examples-1

[7]: #file

[8]: #parameters

[9]: #examples-2

[10]: #statementsfile

[11]: #parameters-1

[12]: #examples-3

[13]: #statement

[14]: #parameters-2

[15]: #examples-4

[16]: #userstory

[17]: #parameters-3

[18]: #examples-5

[19]: #userstoryfile

[20]: #parameters-4

[21]: #examples-6

[22]: #epic

[23]: #parameters-5

[24]: #examples-7

[25]: #functionality

[26]: #parameters-6

[27]: #examples-8

[28]: #conjunction

[29]: #determiner

[30]: #eachdeterminer

[31]: #examples-9

[32]: #firstdeterminer

[33]: #examples-10

[34]: #lastdeterminer

[35]: #examples-11

[36]: #eachtaggeddeterminer

[37]: #examples-12

[38]: #iterator

[39]: #parameters-7

[40]: #examples-13

[41]: #getnext

[42]: #parameters-8

[43]: #getprev

[44]: #parameters-9

[45]: #isfirst

[46]: #islast

[47]: #hasnext

[48]: #hasprev

[49]: #followedby

[50]: #parameters-10

[51]: #nextis

[52]: #parameters-11

[53]: #nextisnt

[54]: #parameters-12

[55]: #is

[56]: #parameters-13

[57]: #isnt

[58]: #parameters-14

[59]: #peek

[60]: #val

[61]: #goto

[62]: #parameters-15

[63]: #until

[64]: #parameters-16

[65]: #toendstring

[66]: #parameters-17

[67]: #object

[68]: #examples-14

[69]: #tag

[70]: #parameters-18

[71]: #untag

[72]: #parameters-19

[73]: #hastags

[74]: #hastag

[75]: #parameters-20

[76]: #find

[77]: #parameters-21

[78]: #clear

[79]: #isempty

[80]: #count

[81]: #parameters-22

[82]: #toarray

[83]: #append

[84]: #determinerdefault

[85]: #parameters-23

[86]: #examples-15

[87]: #setdeterminer

[88]: #file-1

[89]: #parameters-24

[90]: #examples-16

[91]: #read

[92]: #parameters-25

[93]: #examples-17

[94]: #clearfileindisk

[95]: #isempty-1

[96]: #line

[97]: #parameters-26

[98]: #examples-18

[99]: #toarray-1

[100]: #append-1

[101]: #parameters-27

[102]: #statementsfile-1

[103]: #parameters-28

[104]: #examples-19

[105]: #append-2

[106]: #parameters-29

[107]: #read-1

[108]: #parameters-30

[109]: #examples-20

[110]: #line-1

[111]: #parameters-31

[112]: #examples-21

[113]: #toarray-2

[114]: #getuserstorysummary

[115]: #parameters-32

[116]: #statement-1

[117]: #parameters-33

[118]: #examples-22

[119]: #find-1

[120]: #parameters-34

[121]: #examples-23

[122]: #count-1

[123]: #parameters-35

[124]: #examples-24

[125]: #setdeterminer-1

[126]: #examples-25

[127]: #word

[128]: #parameters-36

[129]: #examples-26

[130]: #toarray-3

[131]: #hasuser

[132]: #parameters-37

[133]: #examples-27

[134]: #hasaction

[135]: #parameters-38

[136]: #examples-28

[137]: #haspurpose

[138]: #parameters-39

[139]: #examples-29

[140]: #isuserstoryformat

[141]: #converttouserstory

[142]: #userstory-1

[143]: #parameters-40

[144]: #examples-30

[145]: #user

[146]: #parameters-41

[147]: #groupwith

[148]: #parameters-42

[149]: #userexists

[150]: #parameters-43

[151]: #actionexists

[152]: #parameters-44

[153]: #purposeexists

[154]: #parameters-45

[155]: #correlation

[156]: #parameters-46

[157]: #epic-1

[158]: #parameters-47

[159]: #examples-31

[160]: #append-3

[161]: #parameters-48

[162]: #setdeterminer-2

[163]: #userstory-2

[164]: #parameters-49

[165]: #examples-32

[166]: #renameas

[167]: #parameters-50

[168]: #toarray-4

[169]: #userstoryfile-1

[170]: #parameters-51

[171]: #examples-33

[172]: #getstatementsfile

[173]: #examples-34

[174]: #getinvalidstatements

[175]: #examples-35

[176]: #setdeterminer-3

[177]: #userstory-3

[178]: #parameters-52

[179]: #examples-36

[180]: #invaliduserstory

[181]: #parameters-53

[182]: #examples-37

[183]: #functionality-1

[184]: #parameters-54

[185]: #tag-1

[186]: #parameters-55

[187]: #verb

[188]: #parameters-56

[189]: #validate

[190]: #ismodal

[191]: #parameters-57

[192]: #isauxiliary

[193]: #parameters-58

[194]: #isother

[195]: #parameters-59

[196]: #isvalid

[197]: #parameters-60

[198]: #modalverb

[199]: #parameters-61

[200]: #auxiliaryverb

[201]: #parameters-62

[202]: #otherverb

[203]: #parameters-63

[204]: #validate-1

[205]: #object

[206]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[207]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[208]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML

[209]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[210]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[211]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[212]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean
